# Get-WinEvent

Understanding the importance of mass analysis of Windows Event Logs and Sysmon logs is pivotal in the realm of cybersecurity, especially in Incident Response (IR) and threat hunting scenarios. These logs hold invaluable information about the state of your systems, user activities, potential threats, system changes, and troubleshooting information. However, these logs can also be voluminous and unwieldy. For large-scale organizations, it's not uncommon to generate millions of logs each day. Hence, to distill useful information from these logs, we require efficient tools and techniques to analyze these logs en masse.

One of these tools is the the Get-WinEvent cmdlet in PowerShell.

## Using Get-WinEvent

The Get-WinEvent cmdlet is an indispensable tool in PowerShell for querying Windows Event logs en masse. The cmdlet provides us with the capability to retrieve different types of event logs, including classic Windows event logs like System and Application logs, logs generated by Windows Event Log technology, and Event Tracing for Windows (ETW) logs.

To quickly identify the available logs, we can leverage the -ListLog parameter in conjunction with the Get-WinEvent cmdlet. By specifying \* as the parameter value, we retrieve all logs without applying any filtering criteria. This allows us to obtain a comprehensive list of logs and their associated properties. By executing the following command, we can retrieve the list of logs and display essential properties such as LogName, RecordCount, IsClassicLog, IsEnabled, LogMode, and LogType. The | character is a pipe operator. It is used to pass the output of one command (in this case, the Get-WinEvent command) to another command (in this case, the Select-Object command).

```powershell
Get-WinEvent -ListLog * | Select-Object LogName, RecordCount, IsClassicLog, IsEnabled, LogMode, LogType | Format-Table -AutoSize
```

This command provides us with valuable information about each log, including the name of the log, the number of records present, whether the log is in the classic .evt format or the newer .evtx format, its enabled status, the log mode (Circular, Retain, or AutoBackup), and the log type (Administrative, Analytical, Debug, or Operational).

Additionally, we can explore the event log providers associated with each log using the -ListProvider parameter. Event log providers serve as the sources of events within the logs. Executing the following command allows us to retrieve the list of providers and their respective linked logs.

```powershell
Get-WinEvent -ListProvider * | Format-Table -AutoSize
```

Now, let's focus on retrieving specific event logs using the Get-WinEvent cmdlet. At its most basic, Get-WinEvent retrieves event logs from local or remote computers. The examples below demonstrate how to retrieve events from various logs.

### Retrieving events from the System log

```powershell
Get-WinEvent -LogName 'System' -MaxEvents 50 | Select-Object TimeCreated, ID, ProviderName, LevelDisplayName, Message | Format-Table -AutoSize
```

This example retrieves the first 50 events from the System log. It selects specific properties, including the event's creation time, ID, provider name, level display name, and message. This facilitates easier analysis and troubleshooting.

### Retrieving events from Microsoft-Windows-WinRM/Operational

```powershell
Get-WinEvent -LogName 'Microsoft-Windows-WinRM/Operational' -MaxEvents 30 | Select-Object TimeCreated, ID, ProviderName, LevelDisplayName, Message | Format-Table -AutoSize
```

In this example, events are retrieved from the Microsoft-Windows-WinRM/Operational log. The command retrieves the first 30 events and selects relevant properties for display, including the event's creation time, ID, provider name, level display name, and message.

To retrieve the oldest events, instead of manually sorting the results, we can utilize the -Oldest parameter with the Get-WinEvent cmdlet. This parameter allows us to retrieve the first events based on their chronological order. The following command demonstrates how to retrieve the oldest 30 events from the 'Microsoft-Windows-WinRM/Operational' log.

```powershell
Get-WinEvent -LogName 'Microsoft-Windows-WinRM/Operational' -Oldest -MaxEvents 30 | Select-Object TimeCreated, ID, ProviderName, LevelDisplayName, Message | Format-Table -AutoSize
```

### Retrieving events from .evtx Files

If you have an exported .evtx file from another computer or you have backed up an existing log, you can utilize the Get-WinEvent cmdlet to read and query those logs. This capability is particularly useful for auditing purposes or when you need to analyze logs within scripts.

To retrieve log entries from a .evtx file, you need to provide the log file's path using the -Path parameter. The example below demonstrates how to read events from the 'C:\Tools\chainsaw\EVTX-ATTACK-SAMPLES\Execution\exec_sysmon_1_lolbin_pcalua.evtx' file, which represents an exported Windows PowerShell log.

```powershell
Get-WinEvent -Path 'C:\Tools\chainsaw\EVTX-ATTACK-SAMPLES\Execution\exec_sysmon_1_lolbin_pcalua.evtx' -MaxEvents 5 | Select-Object TimeCreated, ID, ProviderName, LevelDisplayName, Message | Format-Table -AutoSize
```

By specifying the path of the log file using the -Path parameter, we can retrieve events from that specific file. The command selects relevant properties and formats the output for easier analysis, displaying the event's creation time, ID, provider name, level display name, and message.

### Filtering events with FilterHashtable

To filter Windows event logs, we can use the -FilterHashtable parameter, which enables us to define specific conditions for the logs we want to retrieve.

```powershell
Get-WinEvent -FilterHashtable @{LogName='Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational'; ID=1,3} | Select-Object TimeCreated, ID, ProviderName, LevelDisplayName, Message | Format-Table -AutoSize
```

The command above retrieves events with IDs 1 and 3 from the Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational event log, selects specific properties from those events, and displays them in a table format. Note: If we observe Sysmon event IDs 1 and 3 (related to "dangerous" or uncommon binaries) occurring within a short time frame, it could potentially indicate the presence of a process communicating with a Command and Control (C2) server.

For exported events the equivalent command is the following.

```powershell
Get-WinEvent -FilterHashtable @{Path='C:\Tools\chainsaw\EVTX-ATTACK-SAMPLES\Execution\sysmon_mshta_sharpshooter_stageless_meterpreter.evtx'; ID=1,3} | Select-Object TimeCreated, ID, ProviderName, LevelDisplayName, Message | Format-Table -AutoSize
```

Note: These logs are related to a process communicating with a Command and Control (C2) server right after it was created.

If we want the get event logs based on a date range (5/28/23 - 6/2/2023), this can be done as follows.

```powershell
$startDate = (Get-Date -Year 2023 -Month 5 -Day 28).Date
$endDate   = (Get-Date -Year 2023 -Month 6 -Day 3).Date
Get-WinEvent -FilterHashtable @{LogName='Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational'; ID=1,3; StartTime=$startDate; EndTime=$endDate} | Select-Object TimeCreated, ID, ProviderName, LevelDisplayName, Message | Format-Table -AutoSize
```

Note: The above will filter between the start date inclusive and the end date exclusive. That's why we specified June 3rd and not 2nd.

### Filtering events with FilterHashtable & XML

Consider an intrusion detection scenario where a suspicious network connection to a particular IP (52.113.194.132) has been identified. With Sysmon installed, you can use Event ID 3 (Network Connection) logs to investigate the potential threat.

```powershell
PS C:\Users\Administrator> Get-WinEvent -FilterHashtable @{LogName='Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational'; ID=3} |
`ForEach-Object {
$xml = [xml]$_.ToXml()
$eventData = $xml.Event.EventData.Data
New-Object PSObject -Property @{
    SourceIP = $eventData | Where-Object {$_.Name -eq "SourceIp"} | Select-Object -ExpandProperty '#text'
    DestinationIP = $eventData | Where-Object {$_.Name -eq "DestinationIp"} | Select-Object -ExpandProperty '#text'
    ProcessGuid = $eventData | Where-Object {$_.Name -eq "ProcessGuid"} | Select-Object -ExpandProperty '#text'
    ProcessId = $eventData | Where-Object {$_.Name -eq "ProcessId"} | Select-Object -ExpandProperty '#text'
}
}  | Where-Object {$_.DestinationIP -eq "52.113.194.132"}

DestinationIP  ProcessId SourceIP       ProcessGuid
-------------  --------- --------       -----------
52.113.194.132 9196      10.129.205.123 {52ff3419-51ad-6475-1201-000000000e00}
52.113.194.132 5996      10.129.203.180 {52ff3419-54f3-6474-3d03-000000000c00}
```

This script will retrieve all Sysmon network connection events (ID 3), parse the XML data for each event to retrieve specific details (source IP, destination IP, Process GUID, and Process ID), and filter the results to include only events where the destination IP matches the suspected IP.

Further, we can use the ProcessGuid to trace back the original process that made the connection, enabling us to understand the process tree and identify any malicious executables or scripts.

You might wonder how we could have been aware of Event.EventData.Data. The Windows XML EventLog (EVTX) format can be found here.

In the "Tapping Into ETW" section we were looking for anomalous clr.dll and mscoree.dll loading activity in processes that ordinarily wouldn't require them. The command below is leveraging Sysmon's Event ID 7 to detect the loading of abovementioned DLLs.

```powershell
$Query = @"
    <QueryList>
        <Query Id="0">
            <Select Path="Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational">*[System[(EventID=7)]] and *[EventData[Data='mscoree.dll']] or *[EventData[Data='clr.dll']]
            </Select>
        </Query>
    </QueryList>
    "@
Get-WinEvent -FilterXml $Query | ForEach-Object {Write-Host $_.Message `n}
```

### Filtering events with FilterXPath

To use XPath queries with Get-WinEvent, we need to use the -FilterXPath parameter. This allows us to craft an XPath query to filter the event logs.

For instance, if we want to get Process Creation (Sysmon Event ID 1) events in the Sysmon log to identify installation of any Sysinterals tool we can use the command below. Note: During the installation of a Sysinternals tool the user must accept the presented EULA. The acceptance action involves the registry key included in the command below.

```powershell
Get-WinEvent -LogName 'Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational' -FilterXPath "*[EventData[Data[@Name='Image']='C:\Windows\System32\reg.exe']] and *[EventData[Data[@Name='CommandLine']='`"C:\Windows\system32\reg.exe`" ADD HKCU\Software\Sysinternals /v EulaAccepted /t REG_DWORD /d 1 /f']]" | Select-Object TimeCreated, ID, ProviderName, LevelDisplayName, Message | Format-Table -AutoSize
```

Note: Image and CommandLine can be identified by browsing the XML representation of any Sysmon event with ID 1 through, for example, Event Viewer.

Lastly, suppose we want to investigate any network connections to a particular suspicious IP address (52.113.194.132) that Sysmon has logged. To do that we could use the following command.

```powershell
Get-WinEvent -LogName 'Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational' -FilterXPath "*[System[EventID=3] and EventData[Data[@Name='DestinationIp']='52.113.194.132']]"
```

### Filtering events based on property values

The -Property \* parameter, when used with Select-Object, instructs the command to select all properties of the objects passed to it. In the context of the Get-WinEvent command, these properties will include all available information about the event. Let's see an example that will present us with all properties of Sysmon event ID 1 logs.

```powershell
Get-WinEvent -FilterHashtable @{LogName='Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational'; ID=1} -MaxEvents 1 | Select-Object -Property *
```

Let's now see an example of a command that retrieves Process Create events from the Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational log, checks the parent command line of each event for the string -enc, and then displays all properties of any matching events as a list.

```powershell
Get-WinEvent -FilterHashtable @{LogName='Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational'; ID=1} | Where-Object {$_.Properties[21].Value -like "*-enc*"} | Format-List
```

| Where-Object {$_.Properties[21].Value -like "*-enc*"}: This portion of the command further filters the retrieved events. The '|' character (pipe operator) passes the output of the previous command (i.e., the filtered events) to the 'Where-Object' cmdlet. The 'Where-Object' cmdlet filters the output based on the script block that follows it.
$_: In the script block, $_ refers to the current object in the pipeline, i.e., each individual event that was retrieved and passed from the previous command.
.Properties[21].Value: The Properties property of a "Process Create" Sysmon event is an array containing various data about the event. The specific index 21 corresponds to the ParentCommandLine property of the event, which holds the exact command line used to start the process.
-like "_-enc_": This is a comparison operator that matches strings based on a wildcard string, where \* represents any sequence of characters. In this case, it's looking for any command lines that contain -enc anywhere within them. The -enc string might be part of suspicious commands, for example, it's a common parameter in PowerShell commands to denote an encoded command which could be used to obfuscate malicious scripts.
| Format-List: Finally, the output of the previous command (the events that meet the specified condition) is passed to the Format-List cmdlet. This cmdlet displays the properties of the input objects as a list, making it easier to read and analyze.

## Practical Exercise

Navigate to the bottom of this section and click on Click here to spawn the target system!

Then, RDP to [Target IP] using the provided credentials and answer the question below.

```
Get-WinEvent
z0x9n@htb[/htb]$ xfreerdp /u:Administrator /p:'HTB_@cad3my_lab_W1n10_r00t!@0' /v:[Target IP] /dynamic-resolution
```
